#What is Information Security?

A system configuration issue can allow an attacker to gain
access to a database containing personal information.

"Security", can be protecting your assets, whether from 
attackers invading your networks, natural disasters, vandalism,
loss, or misuse.


"Information Security", protecting information and information 
systems from unathorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, 
modification, or destruction.


#When are you secure?

A system in such a state might be secure, but it's not usable or
productive.
As you increase the level of security, you usually decrease the level
of productivity.

No single activity or action will make you secure in every situation.

Examples of what would put you in an insecure state:
      
        - Not applying security patches or applications updates to your system
        - Using weak passwords such as "password" or "1234"
        - Downloading programs from the internet
        - Opening email attachements from unkown senders
        - Using wireless networks without encryption
        
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
applies to companies that process credit card payments.

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA)
for organization that handle healthcare and patient records

Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMAA), security standards
for many federal agencies in the United States


#The Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability Traid

#Confidentiality

Confidentiality refers to our ability to protect our data from those who
are not authorized to view it. 


Example of Confidentiality:

      Personal Identification number (PIN), allow anyone to withdraw fun from 
    the ATM, if he/she has an ATM card. Owner of ATM will maintain confidentiality
    of the account number, balance, and any other information needed to communicate 
    to the bank from which funds are being withdrawn.
    
    
Ways to Comproise Confidentiality:

      1. Lose a laptop containing data
      2. Person could look over your shoulder while you enter a password
      3. Could send an email attachment to the wrong person
      
      
#Integrity

"Integrity", ability to prevent people from changing your data in an 
unauthorized or undesirable manner.

Maintaining Integrity, prevent unauthorized changes to your data and 
ability to reverse unwanted authorized changes.


#Availability

"Availability", the ability to access our data when we need it.

Lose availability due to a power loss, operating system or application
problems, network attacks, or the comprising of a system. 

Exampe, 
      An outside partt, like an attacker causes such issues, we typically
    call this "denial-of-service (DoS)" attack.
    
#The Parkerian Hexad

Parkerian Hexad consist of, Confidentiality, Availability, Integrity,
Authenticity, Utility, and Possession.


#Possession

"Possesion" or "Control" the physical disposition of the media on which
the data is stored. 

Enables you to discuess your loss of data in its physical medium without
inolving other factors such as availability.

Principle of possesion would enable you to more accurately describe the 
scope of the incident.

#Authenticity

"Authenticity", allows you to say whether you've attributed the data in
question to the proper owner or creator. 

Authenticity can be enforced using digital signatures.

"nonrepudation", prevents people from taking an action, such as sending an
email and then later denying that they have done so.


#Utility

"Utility", how useful the data is to you.

Variety of degrees of utility, depending on the data and its format.

# Attacks

Face attacks from a wide variety of approaches and angle. 
Break them down to "type" of attack, "risk" the attack represents, and
the "controls" you might use to mitigate it.

#Types of Attacks

      
      C: Interception
      
      I: Interruption
         Modification
         Fabrication
      
      A: Interruption
         Modifcation
         Fabrication
         
         
#Interception

 Allow unauthorized users to access your data, applications, or environments
 and they are primarly attacks against confidentiality.
 
 Example of Interception:
 
      - Unathorized file viewing or copying
      - Eavesdropping on phone conversations
      - Reading someone else's email
 
 Interruption
 
 "Interruption" Attacks make your assets unusable or unavailable to you on a
 temporary or permanent basis. 
 
 An attacker manipulating the process on which database runs to prevent access
 to the data it contains, you might consider this an integrity attack, 
 due to the possible loos or corruption of data. 
 
 Modification
 
 "Modifcation", involve tampering with an asset.
 
 If you access a file in an unaothirzed manner and alter the data it contains, 
 you have affected the integrity of the files data. 
 
 If the file in question is a configuration file that manages how a service behaves
 changing the contents of the file might affect the availability of that service.
 
 
 Fabrication
 
 Fabrication attacks involve generating data, process, communcations, or other
 similar  materail with a system. 
 
 Fabrication attacks primarly affect integrity, but can affect availability.
 
 Generating fake information in a databse would be a kind of fabrication attack.
 
 
 #Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Risk
 
 Threats
 
 A threat is something that has the pontential to cause harm. Threats tend to 
 be specific to certain environments, particularly in the world of information
 security.
 
 Example:
      
            A virus might be problematic on a Windosw opearting system, same
          virus will be unlikely to have any affect on a linux opearting system.
          
          
Vulnerabilities

Vulnerabilities are weakness, or holes, that threats can exploit to cause you
harm.

Might involve specific opearting system or application that you're running, 
the physical location of your office building, a data center that is overpopulated
with servers and producing more heat than its A/C system can handle, a lack of
backup generators, or other facotrs.


Risk

Risk is the likelihood that something bad will happen.

For a risk to be in an environement, you need to have both a threat and vulnerability
that the threat could exploit.


Impact

Us National Security Agency (NSA), add a factor to the threat/vulnerability/risk equation.

Impact takes into account the value of the asset being threatened and uses it to calculate
risk.

Risk management

Identify Assets

Important part of the risk management process is identifying the assets you're protecting.

Once Assets are Identified in use, decide which of them are ciritcal business assetts. 
An accurate determination of which assets are truly critcal to conducting business well
generally require the input of functions that make use of the assets.

Identify Threats

By enumerating your critical assets, you can then begin to identify the threats that might
affect them. 

Useful to have a framework for discussing the nature of a given threat.



Assess Vulnerabilities

Assessing vulnerabilites, you need to do so in the contect of potential threats.

Any given asset may have thousands or millions of threats that could impact it, 
but only a small fraction of these will be relevant


Assess Risks

Once identified the threats and vulnerabilities for a given asset, you can asses
the overall risk.

A vulnerability with no matching threat or a threat with no matching vulnerability
does not contitute a risk.

Mitigate Risks

To mitigate risks, you can put measures in place to account for each threat.

"Contorls" are divided into three categories:

      1. Physical
      2. Logical
      3. Administrative
      
      
Physical Controls

      - Protect the physical environment in which your systems sit, or 
      where your data is stored.
      
      - Controls also control access in and out of such environments.
  
  Physical Controls:
      
       1. Fences
       2. Gates
       3. Locks
       4. Bollards
       5. Guards
       6. Cameras
       
   Physical Contorls may not seem like they'd be integral to information 
   security, they're one of the most critical controls.
   
   If attackers can physically access your systems, they can steal or destroy
   them, rendering them unavailable for your use.
   
   
Logical Controls

      - Somtimes called "Technical Controls"
      - Protect the systems, networks, and environments that process, transmit
        and store your data.
      - Enable you to prevent unauthorized activties; if your logical controls
        are implemented properly and are successful.
        
   Logical Controls:
      
       1. Passwords
       2. Encryption
       3. Access Controls
       4. Firewalls
       5. Instrusion Detection Systems
       
Administrative Controls

      - Based on rules, laws, policies, procedures, guidelines,
        and other items that are "paper"
      - Dictate how the users of your environment should behave.
      - Administrative Controls can represent differing levels of
        authority
        
        
Incident Response

      The Incident Reponse Process:
      
            1. Preparation
            2. Detection and Analysis
            3. Containment
            4. Eradication
            5. Recovery
            6. Post-incident activity
            
   Preperation
      
      Involves creating policies and procedures that govern the incident response
      and handling, conducting training and education for both incident handlers
      and those who are expected to report incidents, and developing and maintaining
      documentation.
      
      
   Detection and Analysis
   
      Detection and analysis phase is where the action begins.
      Detect an issue, decide whether it's actually an incident, and respond
      to it appropriately.
      
      You will detect issue with a security tool or service like:
                  
                  
                  - Instruction Detection System (IDS)
                  - Antivirus (AV)
                  - Firewall logs
                  - Proxy logs
                  - Alerts form a security information and event monitoring (SIEM)
                  - Managed Security Service Provider (MSSP)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   























